<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>AES Algorithm Module</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="_static/graphviz.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="module-securefile.aes_algorithm">
<span id="aes-algorithm-module"></span><h1>AES Algorithm Module</h1>
<div class="section" id="advanced-encryption-standard-aes-algorithm">
<h2>Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) Algorithm</h2>
<p>The more popular and widely adopted symmetric encrypt algorithm
likely to be encountered nowadays is the Advanced Encryption
Standard (AES). It is found at least six time faster than triple DES.</p>
<p>A replacement for DES was needed as its key size was too small.
With increasing computing power, it was considered vulnerable
against exhaustive key search attack. Triple DES was designed
to overcome this drawback but it was found slow.</p>
<p>The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), also known by its original
name Rijndael, is a specification for the encrypt of electronic
data established by the U.S. National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) in 2001. AES is a subset of the Rijndael cipher
developed by two Belgian cryptographers, Joan Daemen and Vincent
Rijmen, who submitted a proposal to NIST during the AES selection
process. Rijndael is a family of ciphers with different key
and block sizes.</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>The features of AES are as follows:</dt>
<dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p>Symmetric key symmetric block cipher</p></li>
<li><p>128-bit data, 128/192/256-bit keys</p></li>
<li><p>Stronger and faster than Triple-DES</p></li>
<li><p>Provide full specification and design details</p></li>
<li><p>Software implementable in C and Java</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
<dt>Example ::</dt>
<dd><p>import securefile.aes_algorithm as aes_algo</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</div>
<div class="toctree-wrapper compound">
<p class="caption"><span class="caption-text">Module Class:</span></p>
<ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="aes/aes.xhtml">AES Class</a><ul>
<li class="toctree-l2"><a class="reference internal" href="aes/encrypt.xhtml">securefile.rsa_algorithm.RSA.encrypt</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l2"><a class="reference internal" href="aes/decrypt.xhtml">securefile.rsa_algorithm.RSA.decrypt</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l2"><a class="reference internal" href="aes/other.xhtml">Support Functions</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>