<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>RSA Algorithm Module</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="_static/graphviz.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="module-securefile.rsa_algorithm">
<span id="rsa-algorithm-module"></span><h1>RSA Algorithm Module</h1>
<div class="section" id="rsa-algorithm">
<h2>RSA Algorithm</h2>
<p>RSA algorithm is a public key encryption technique and is considered as the
most secure way of encryption.</p>
<p>RSA algorithm is asymmetric cryptography algorithm.
Asymmetric actually means that it works on two different keys
i.e. Public Key and Private Key.
As the name describes that the Public Key is given to everyone
and Private key is kept private.</p>
<p>The idea of RSA is based on the fact that it is difficult to
factorize a large integer. The public key consists of two
numbers where one number is multiplication of two large
prime numbers. And private key is also derived from the same
two prime numbers. So if somebody can factorize the large number,
the private key is compromised. Therefore encryption strength
totally lies on the key size and if we double or triple the
key size, the strength of encryption increases exponentially.
RSA keys can be typically 1024 or 2048 bits long,
but experts believe that 1024 bit keys could be broken in the
near future. But till now it seems to be an infeasible task.</p>
<p>It was invented by Rivest, Shamir and Adleman
in year 1978 and hence name RSA algorithm.</p>
</div>
<div class="toctree-wrapper compound">
<p class="caption"><span class="caption-text">Module Class:</span></p>
<ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="rsa/rsa.xhtml">RSA Class</a><ul>
<li class="toctree-l2"><a class="reference internal" href="rsa/encrypt.xhtml">securefile.rsa_algorithm.RSA.encrypt</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l2"><a class="reference internal" href="rsa/decrypt.xhtml">securefile.rsa_algorithm.RSA.decrypt</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l2"><a class="reference internal" href="rsa/other.xhtml">Support Functions</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>